#labels Phase-Implementation
= Snap Backup Contributor Steps for Microsoft Windows =

Follow these steps on Windows to use Subversion (SVN) to access the Snap Backup source code and submit your changes.

== 1. One-Time Environment and SVN Setup ==
*A) Download and Install JDK*
   Click the _*Download*_ button for _*JDK 6 Update X*_ (where _*X*_ is the current update version) at:
      http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/
   Install the JDK with all the default options.

*B) Download and Install Apache Ant*
   Obtain the file _*apache-ant-X.Y.Z-bin.zip*_ (where _*X.Y.Z*_ is the current version, such as _1.7.1_):
      http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi
   Unzip the file into the folder `C:\Apps\Ant` so that you end up with a folder named: `C:\Apps\Ant\apache-ant-X.Y.Z`

*C) Download and Install SVN Client*
   Click the _*Silk SVN*_ download icon (there's a 32-bit edition and a 64-bit edition) at:
      http://www.sliksvn.com/en/download
   Install with the default options.

*D) Get Your !GoogleCode.com Password*
   To obtain your password, visit:
      http://code.google.com/hosting/settings

*E) Download Code*
   Launch _*Command Prompt*_ (_*Start* -->  *Programs*  --> *Accessories*  -->  *Command Prompt*_), and enter the following commands:
   || `> mkdir \Projects` ||
   || `> cd \Projects` ||
   || `> svn checkout https://snapbackup.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ snapbackup --username <USERNAME HERE>` ||
   In the above instructions, replace `<USERNAME HERE>` with your Google Code username.

*F) Download and Install NSIS*
   Click the _*Download*_ link to get Nullsoft Scriptable Install System (NSIS) from:
      http://nsis.sourceforge.net/Download
   Install with the default options.


== 2. Contributor Steps ==
*A) Build Current Project and Verify*
   In _Windows Explorer_, go to the `\Projects\snapbackup\src\tools` folder and double-click the _*build.cmd*_ file.

   Now go to the `\Projects\snapbackup\build` folder and double-click _*snapbackup.jar*_.  Verify the Snap Backup application is working properly.

*B) Edit Code*
   The project files are all under the `\Projects\snapbackup` folder.  Use your editor or IDE to make changes to the appropriate files.

*C) Build the Project and Verify*
   Repeat step A above.

*D) Check Changes into SVN Repository (Server)*
   || `> cd \Projects\snapbackup` ||
   || `> svn update` ||
   || `> svn status` ||
   || `> svn commit --message "<COMMENT HERE>."` ||
   || `> svn status` ||
In the above instructions, replace `<COMMENT HERE>` with a short description of the changes you made.


----
[http://www.snapbackup.com/about/ Snap Backup Contributors]