#labels Phase-Implementation
= Snap Backup Contributor Steps for Mac OS X =

Follow these steps on Mac OS X to use Subversion (SVN) to access the Snap Backup source code and submit your changes.

== 1. One-Time Environment and SVN Setup ==
*A) Get Your Password*
   To obtain your password (needed for next step), visit:
      http://code.google.com/hosting/settings

*B) Download Code*
   Run _Terminal_ (it's in `/Applications/Utilities`) and enter the following commands at the Unix shell prompt:
   || `$ mkdir ~/Projects` ||
   || `$ cd ~/Projects` ||
   || `$ svn checkout https://snapbackup.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ snapbackup --username <USERNAME HERE>` ||
   In the above instructions, replace "`<USERNAME HERE>`" with your Google Code username.  If you get an "Error validating server certificate", you can enter "p" to permanently accept the certificate.

*C) Download and Install Xcode (optional)*
   If you plan to create the installer (see step 3B below), you need to get _*Xcode for Mac Development*_ at:
      http://developer.apple.com/tools/download/
   Open the downloaded _*.dmg*_ file and run _*!XcodeTools.mpkg*_ to complete the Xcode installation.  Use the default options.

== 2. Core Contributor Steps ==
*A) Build Current Project and Verify*
   Open _Finder_ --> Go to the folder `~/Projects/snapbackup/src/tools/` --> Double-click the file _*build.sh.command*_ --> Go to the folder `~/Projects/snapbackup/build/` --> Double-click the file _*snapbackup.jar*_ -->  Verify that the Snap Backup application launches and works properly

*B) Edit Code*
   The project files are under the `~/Projects/snapbackup_ folder`  (Note to translators: the language files are at `~/Projects/snapbackup/src/resources/properties`.)  Use your editor to make changes to the appropriate files.

*C) Build the Project and Verify*
   Repeat step A above.

*D) Check Changes into SVN Repository (Server)*
   || `$ cd ~/Projects/snapbackup` ||
   || `$ svn update` ||
   || `$ svn status` ||
   || `$ svn commit --message "<COMMENT HERE>."` ||
   || `$ svn status` ||
   In the above instructions, replace "`<COMMENT HERE>`" with a short description of the changes you made.

== 3. Mac OS X Application with Installer ==
*A) Create Mac Application*
   To turn the Executable Java Archive (JAR) file into a proper [http://www.centerkey.com/mac/java/ Mac OS X application], open _Jar Bundler_  (it's in `/Developer/Applications/Utilities`) and follow these steps:
      # For "Main Class:", use the _*Choose...*_ button to navigate to the `~/Projects/snapbackup/build` folder and then _*Choose*_ the _*snapbackup.jar*_ file
      # Check the "Use Macintosh Menu Bar" option
      # Use the _*Choose Icon*_ button to navigate to the `~/Projects/snapbackup/src/installer/mac` folder and then _*Open*_ the _*snap-backup.icns*_ file
      # Click the _*Properties*_ tab and enter the version number (ex: `5.0`) from step 2C into the fields "Version:" and "Get-Info String:"
      # Click the _*Create Application...*_ button
      # Navigate to the `~/Projects/snapbackup/build` folder
      # In the "File:" field, enter `Snap Backup`
      # Click the _*Create*_ button
      # Quit _Jar Bundler_
   The new Mac application you just created will be at: `~/Projects/snapbackup/build/Snap Backup`

*B) Create Mac Installer (optional)*
   To wrap the application into a native [http://www.centerkey.com/mac/java/ Mac OS X installer], follow these steps:
      # Using _Finder_, navigate to the `~/Projects/snapbackup/src/installer/mac` folder
      # Double-click _*snap-backup.pmdoc*_
      # Click the _*Build*_ hammer icon
      # Navigate to the `~/Projects/snapbackup/build` folder
      # Deselect the "Hide extension" option
      # Click the _*Save*_ button
      # Quit _!PackageMaker_ and choose _*Don't Save*_ your changes
   The new installer you just created will be at: `~/Projects/snapbackup/build/SnapBackupInstaller.mpkg`


----
[http://www.snapbackup.com/about/ Snap Backup Contributors]